---
layout: post
title:  "On This"
permalink: /on-this/
date:   2025-11-22
# categories: 
---
### What is a Musing?

A musing can be viewed as both an exercise in thought and a genuine deliberation on a topic. Depending on context and perspective, a musing can lean more towards the former or latter. However, both can exist either simultaneously or exclusively of each other.

Musings with the intention of provoking critical thought can be unruly, this *could* be intentional, the topic itself is secondary to the mental exercise within; an experiment in thought. Whereas musings with the intention of deliberation are more focused, inspiring thought in a particular direction, versus thought in the abstract.

For instance, a musing could be a social commentary, highlighting societal contradictions, issues, or general inconsistencies. A focused musing can serve the purpose of both eliciting thought in general and guiding new thoughts in a particular direction.

Both “purposeful” and “non-purposeful” musings have their place in a practice of higher order thinking, however, with purpose you can more directly and immediately apply the thinking you’ve done to your life.

The purpose of conveying a musing with another is for it to inspire thought. It was conceived through meditation, and carries the intention of igniting further thought within the recipient.

Musings **do not** rely on credibility or authorship.

There are many outside opinions that we put varying degrees of emphasis on depending on *who* said it. If we agree with the person in general or we are blinded by their assumed authority, we could adapt their opinion as ours without thought or a cursory one **at best**. We are not discussing this glaring issue, at least, *not now*.

This is not the case for musings. Musings are independent of an author, they are designed for you to take the effort to think **for yourself** and form your own view on a subject (assuming there is one). There is no external influence on a musing, it is the tinder to your fire.

### What

The topic of this first entry in the collection is, *On This*.

***This*** can be described as:

- An archive.
- A time capsule.
- A supplementary resource.
- A collection of philosophy and thought experiments.
- A set of opinions.
- Nonsense, ramblings, babble.

All true depending on your perspective.

At its root, what you are reading is an entry in a **collection of musings** on various topics pertaining to the quarter of the 21st century and beyond. Both types of musings, abstract and purposive will be found within this collection.  

The collection is **intentionally informal**.

In most cases, when someone writes, they write with an air of grandiosity. They expect to be “taken seriously” because they are deluded into overvaluing the significance of themselves and their opinions. **That is not the case here**.

There will be errors, typos, repetition (which isn’t inherently negative), there will be biases, unbacked claims, there will be outright false information (deliberate or otherwise). Mistakably appearing haphazard or disorderly. This is partly due to the fact that there are intrinsic human flaws and oversights. And partly because this is not to be taken with full sincerity, and almost nothing should be.  

Within the musings, language will be used as was originally intended. The medium to concisely and succinctly translate a thought into a cogent and lucid message to be conveyed with another, without confusion or pomposity. Do not conflate obscurity or obliquity with profundity.

Additionally, chasing perfection is a fool’s errand. Not only is it counterproductive, but it is deleterious. Perfection is a nice ideal, but a toxic obsession— forever out of reach. The longer you persist in attempting to achieve it, the more time and effort you’ve wasted. In our case, perfection is not the aim— *thought* is.

Learning to appreciate imperfections is an invaluable trait. Else, none of these musings would ever reach fruition. If you can accept that, you are in the right place.  

### Why

The purpose of this collection is to serve as repository of thoughts, open-ended questions, partial answers, ideology, and commentary. With the common denominator of provoking contemplation, with or without a specific aim. The collection itself can additionally double as a marker of a certain subset of thinking during this period when viewed retrospectively.

And why would you want to think, engage in mental exercise, or form your own opinions? If you don’t have the answer for yourself, this might not be the most beneficial resource.

Why now? Living in an age of exponential information increase and an endless flood of noise, it is ever more challenging to discern signal. This collection hopes to be an addition to the few beacons that stand as a sanctuary of quality in the vast, but shallow sea of the Information Age. The bountiful age we live in leaves us insidiously deficient, yet deceives us into feeling satiated. The nutrients we need are available, but far and in-between. The visibility/discoverability of signal is dimming with each day as the shroud of noise consumes and multiplies.

Why share? The likelihood of being discovered in today’s age is diminishingly low, even as a public resource, it is almost certain that this collection will remain functionally private or known exclusively by a nominal minority of thinkers. This is solely due to visibility. There is no shortage of superlative information, old or new, however, the *chance* you will stumble upon it is almost infinitesimal. As a result of this great information scatter, when you do discern something of value, it is of utmost importance to distribute it with those you want to see succeed or further themselves. In this case, it is anyone that agrees with the general philosophy of this collection. It is meant to be further distributed.

In a society driven by greed, humans have grown selfish to the point where even family has lost its meaning; a virus of egocentrism. The accomplishments of another do not blunt your own, unless they are your enemy. To not share, either you are surrounded by hostiles, or you have fallen ill with the same egocentric societal disease. Aid one another’s triumphs and you’ll find yourself better off had you not.

Has the symbiotic mutualism that humans have developed (and evolved with) amongst each other withered in its entirety? Or, are you falsely misrepresenting a few bad actors starkly out of proportion? All systems are prone to a degree of error, being able to discern what falls within normal range and what is indicative of a dysfunction or maladaptation is crucial.

### Who

#### Who is it for?

It is for anyone who possesses a drive for advancement both in the abstract and the immediate. Advancement as a virtue.

It is for anyone who desires a reminder and exercise to formulate their own opinions and spark new lines of thinking.

Assuming you made it this far, it was made for you and other similar minded individuals.

At risk of coming off as overtly pious, this collection is not a sacred scripture, and it can be viewed from a humorous or critical angle. This could all be nonsense after all.

#### Who is behind it?

There is too much emphasis laid on *who* said something, and an insufficient amount on the substance of *what* is being said.

Since musings are without authorship, it is befitting that a collection of musings inherit the same property. If it helps, you can think of the addition of entries to this collection as a curation done by a faceless entity, for the sole reason of identity being irrelevant.

### Name

The origin behind the name— *Musings: Quarter Century* is straightforward. A set of *Musings* that are relating to and originating from the *Quarter Century* of the 21st century of the Gregorian Calendar. The simplicity of the name could be attributed to a lack of creativity, or, conversely, viewed as *an avant-garde expression of literary brutalism*.  

### Expect

Ideally, what is to be expected is more entries in the same vein as this one, following the different variances of musings mentioned previously. Though, there could be debate whether this entry could be classified as a proper “musing” or not.

Expect the unconventional. The entire collection has an undertone of being uniquely *idiosyncratic* in a manner that compliments the general impetus behind it.

Expect to question. Both in regard to introspection and the contents contained within. These stones are meant to be turned. The end goal is to bolster thought autonomy.

Additionally, you can expect a minor element of a resource of resources to be found within the collection. References to external material deemed philosophically compatible will be made.

### Farewell

Don’t be a passenger in your own life or mind. We deceive ourselves into underestimating the true degree of agency we possess.
